1️⃣ What is JIRA?

“JIRA is a project management and issue-tracking tool developed by Atlassian.
It is mainly used in Agile software development to track tasks, bugs, user stories, and project progress.
In JIRA, we can create issues, assign them to team members, set priorities, track status like To Do, In Progress, and Done, and generate reports for monitoring work.
It helps teams collaborate better and deliver projects on time.”

Short line to remember:
“JIRA is widely used in Agile and Scrum-based projects.”

2️⃣ What is Scrum?

“Scrum is an Agile framework used for developing and managing software projects.
It divides the work into small time-boxed iterations called sprints, usually of 2 to 4 weeks.
Scrum has defined roles such as Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Development Team.
Daily stand-up meetings, sprint planning, sprint review, and sprint retrospective are part of Scrum.
The main goal of Scrum is to deliver working software frequently and improve continuously.”

Short line to remember:
“Scrum focuses on teamwork, accountability, and continuous improvement.”

3️⃣ What is Agile?

“Agile is a software development methodology 
Instead of developing the entire project at once, Agile breaks the work into small increments and delivers features step by step.
It welcomes changes even in later stages of development and emphasizes working software over detailed documentation.”

Short line to remember:
“Agile helps in faster delivery, better quality, and higher customer satisfaction.”









NETSCOUT is a network security + performance monitoring company.

Technical Skills
Java / C / C++
OS Concepts
Problem Solving (Aptitude)
Basic Networking idea (optional but helpful)

Soft Skills
Good communication
Team player
Ability to learn fast



Q2. Why NETSCOUT?
“NETSCOUT builds high-performance network security and monitoring products. Working here will help me learn about enterprise-level systems, packet analysis, and performance engineering. It is a perfect place for a fresher to grow technically.”

Q4. Weakness? (safe answer)
“I sometimes get too focused on small details, but I’m improving by setting time limits.”



1. What is OOP?
OOP is a programming model based on objects and classes.
It has 4 pillars: Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction.

2. Overloading vs Overriding
Overloading: Same method name, different parameters.
Overriding: Same method name and parameters in child class.

3. Abstract Class vs Interface
Abstract class: can have both abstract + non-abstract methods.
Interface: only abstract methods (Java 8+ allows default methods).

4. What is encapsulation?
Binding data and methods using private variables + getters/setters.

5. What is constructor?
A special method used to initialize objects.

6. String vs StringBuilder
String → immutable
StringBuilder → mutable + faster

7. Exception Handling Keywords
try, catch, finally, throw, throws

8. What are Collections?
Pre-built data structures in Java: List, Set, Map.




1. Pointers
A pointer stores the memory address of another variable.

2. Structure
Used to group different data types.

3. malloc vs new
malloc (C): allocates memory
new (C++): allocates + initializes memory

4. pass by value vs reference
Value → copy given
Reference → address given




Process vs Thread
Process → independent program
Thread → lightweight unit of process

Deadlock
A situation where processes wait forever due to resource holding.

Paging vs Segmentation
Paging = fixed size
Segmentation = variable size

Context Switching
Switching CPU from one process to another.

Kernel vs User Mode
Kernel mode → full access
User mode → limited access


Scheduling Algorithms
FCFS
SJF
Round Robin
Priority





✅ 5. Networking Basics (Very Important)

NETSCOUT = networking/packet inspection company.

OSI Model (Only Names Needed)
Physical
Data Link
Network
Transport
Session
Presentation
Application

TCP vs UDP
TCP – reliable, slower
UDP – fast, not reliable

What is IP address?
A unique address used to identify devices on a network.




✔ Reverse a String
✔ Find Largest Number
✔ Simple CRUD Save Method
✔ Count vowels




@RestController
@RequestMapping("/users")
public class UserController {

    @GetMapping
    public String getUser() {
        return "Read User";
    }

    @PostMapping
    public String createUser() {
        return "Create User";
    }

    @PutMapping
    public String updateUser() {
        return "Update User";
    }

    @DeleteMapping
    public String deleteUser() {
        return "Delete User";
    }
}


